All right, so let's review some
declaration examples which have modifiers
and/or extends/implements declarations,
that are both valid, firstly and then we'll move on
to some invalid examples.
First one, public class Test extends SuperTest.
The Test class is a subclass of a SuperTest class.
Public abstract class Test extends SuperTest,
an abstract class can be a subtype of a class,
abstract or not.
Public class Test implements Ainterface,
The Test class implements an interface called Ainterface.
Public class Test extends SuperTest implements Ainterface,
A class can extend both a class and implement an interface.
And finally, public class Test extends SuperTest implements
Ainterface, Binterface.
A class can extend a class and implement
multiple interfaces.
Right, so let's look at some invalid declarations.
First one, public class Test extends SuperTest, SuperExam.
A class can only extend one class,
it can only be a subtype of one supertype.
So, given public class SuperTest,
left of right curly braces,
then public class Test implements SuperTest.
This is an invalid declaration.
You implement an interface, and not a class.
And fairly, given public interface Ainterface,
left or right curly braces,
then public class Test extends AInterface.
This is an invalid declaration.
You implement an interface.
You cannot extend an interface,
unless your type is an interface.
Right, so let's now discuss Class Body and it's Structure.
I've got an image on the screen there.
This was taken from Oracle's Java Specification.
There's a link in the resources section,
if you want to refer to that.
Let's go through and discuss these, while this is on sceen.
So the Class Body block rules are as follows:
The class body may contain declarations of members
of the class, that is, fields, methods, classes,
and interfaces.
The class body may also contain instance initializers,
static initializers, and declarations of constructors
for the class.
Constructors, static initializers, and instance initializers
are NOT members, and therefore are not inherited.
Declarations can be in any order but with some caveats:
The order of declarations is important in the
execution of initializers,
which are executed in the order that they're defined.
An initializer block cannot use
an unqualified variable defined and initialised
after it's declaration in a statement,
other than making an assignment to the variable.
A static initializer block cannot use
an unqualified static variable declared and initialised,
after it's declaration in a statement,
other than making an assignment to the variable.
An instance variable cannot use
an unqualified reference to another instance variable,
declared after it's declaration,
in it's assignment statement.
Fields, methods, and member types of a class type,
may have the same name,
since they are used in different contexts
and are disambiguated by different lookup procedures.
However, this is discouraged as a matter of style.
Now, we'll talk about class members and constructors,
in the next few upcoming videos,
but let's review initializers on this next slide.
So, Instance initializer,
this is a block of code declared in a class,
whose statements are executed
when an instance of a class is created.
A return statement cannot appear anywhere within
an instance initializer.
You can have multiple initializer blocks,
they'll be executed in the order they are declared.
Initializer blocks are executed prior
to any constructor block of code being executed,
but after any call to the parent type's constructor.
These blocks are not inherited by subclasses.
Next, we've got a Static initializer.
The static initializer is a block of code,
declared in a class prefaced by the keyword 'static',
whose statements are executed when the class is initialised.
A return statement also cannot appear anywhere within
a static initializer.
The keywords to this and super are not permitted
in this code section.
Remember that 'this' and 'super' refer back to instances,
and class or static initializers,
do not refer to a single instance.
Any type variable declared outside the static initializer,
cannot appear anywhere with a static initializer.
You can have multiple static initializer blocks,
they'll be executed in the order they are declared.
And finally, these blocks are not inherited by subclasses.
All right, we finished the video here.
In the next video,
we're gonna start looking at doing some coding,
and determining whether it really does matter,
whether declaring initializers, constructors,
and instance variables in a specific order or not.